Refactor clustering (#1728)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/deploy/cluster/security.md

# Cluster security

> Security is the cornerstone of all IoT applications and platforms. EMQX adopts multiple protection mechanisms to ensure data and privacy security, for example, EMQX supports multiple [authentication](../../access-control/authn/authn.md) and [authorization](../../access-control/authz/authz.md) mechanisms on the node level. It also leverages the features of port mapping and TLS encryption to ensure the security of client data transmission, message communication between cluster nodes, and enterprise system integrations.

Reviewer: The scope is too large and the recommendation is to focus on cluster security

Author: please have another look @wivwiv

> Security is the cornerstone of all IoT applications and platforms. EMQX adopts multiple protection mechanisms to ensure data and privacy security, for example, EMQX supports multiple [authentication](../../access-control/authn/authn.md) and [authorization](../../access-control/authz/authz.md) mechanisms on the node level. It also leverages the features of port mapping and TLS encryption to ensure the security of client data transmission, message communication between cluster nodes, and enterprise system integrations.

Author: ```suggestion
Besides [authentication](../../access-control/authn/authn.md) and [authorization](../../access-control/authz/authz.md) mechanisms on the node level, EMQX also leverages the features of port mapping and TLS encryption to ensure the security of client data transmission, message communication between cluster nodes, and enterprise system integrations.
```

> Security is the cornerstone of all IoT applications and platforms. EMQX adopts multiple protection mechanisms to ensure data and privacy security, for example, EMQX supports multiple [authentication](../../access-control/authn/authn.md) and [authorization](../../access-control/authz/authz.md) mechanisms on the node level, it also leverages the features of Port mapping and TLS encryption to ensure the data transmission security of client data transmission, message communication between cluster nodes, and enterprise system integrations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Security is the cornerstone of all IoT applications and platforms. EMQX adopts multiple protection mechanisms to ensure data and privacy security, for example, EMQX supports multiple [authentication](../../access-control/authn/authn.md) and [authorization](../../access-control/authz/authz.md) mechanisms on the node level. It also leverages the features of port mapping and TLS encryption to ensure the security of client data transmission, message communication between cluster nodes, and enterprise system integrations.
```

> This section introduces port mapping in EMQX and how to configure TLS/SSL encryption. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section introduces port mapping in EMQX and how to configure TLS/SSL encryption for inter-cluster traffic.
```

::: tip Tip
It's a good practice to keep the clustering ports internal by configuring firewall rules e.g., [AWS security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_SecurityGroups.html) or [iptables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables). 

If there is a firewall between the cluster nodes, the conventional listening ports should be allowed for other nodes in the cluster to reach. <!--I think more content should be added about the firewall setting-->
:::

## Set Node Cookies

> For security concerns, you should change the default cookie settings to `emqxsecretcookie` in `emqx.conf` on all nodes to join the cluster. 

Reviewer: A secret cookie instead of this cookie

Author: not sure how to deal with this comment and the comment below @wivwiv

Note: All nodes to join the cluster should use the same security cookie. For details about the magic cookie used, see [Distributed Erlang - Security](https://www.erlang.org/doc/reference_manual/distributed.html#security). 

```
node {

>   cookie = "emqxsecretcookie"

Reviewer: Id.

Author: need to specify @wivwiv

EMQX applies the same port mapping rule for Erlang Distribution Ports and Cluster RPC Ports, which is: 

```
ListeningPort = BasePort + Offset
```

The offset is calculated based on the numeric suffix of the node's name. If the node's name does not have a numeric suffix, then the offset is set to 0. For example:

- For node `emqx@192.168.0.12`, it does not have a numeric suffix, the port will be `4370` for Erlang Distribution Ports (or `5370` for Cluster RPC Ports). 
- For node `emqx1@192.168.0.12`, the numeric suffix is 1, the port will be `4371`  (or `5371` for Cluster RPC Ports). 

## Configure TLS to Secure Cluster Connections

EMQX also supports using TLS to secure the communication channel between EMQX nodes to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of the data exchanged between them. TLS comes at the cost of increased CPU load and RAM usage, please configure as per your business needs. 

This section introduces how to configure TLS for EMQX clusters. On how to obtain a SSL/TLS certificate, see [Enable SSL/TLS Connection](../../network/emqx-mqtt-tls.md). 

> ### Using TLS for Cluster RPC Connections

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use TLS for Cluster RPC Connections
```

}
```

> ### Using TLS for Erlang distribution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use TLS for Erlang distribution
```
